TABLEFORMER: Robust Transformer Modeling for Table-Text Encoding

Jingfeng Yang* Aditya Gupta† Shyam Upadhyay†

Luheng He Rahul Goel Shachi Paul

*Georgia Institute of Technology

Google Assistant

jingfengyangpku@gmail.com

tableformer.google.com

Abstract

Understanding tables is an important aspect of natural language understanding. Existing models for table understanding require linearization of the table structure, where row or column order is encoded as an unwanted bias. Such spurious biases make the model vulnerable to row and column order perturbations. Additionally, prior work has not thoroughly modeled the table structures or table-text alignments, hindering the table-text understanding ability. In this work, we propose a robust and structurally aware table-text encoding architecture TABLEFORMER, where tabular structural biases are incorporated completely through learnable attention biases. TABLEFORMER is (1) strictly invariant to row and column orders, and, (2) could understand tables better due to its tabular inductive biases. Our evaluations showed that TABLEFORMER outperforms strong baselines in all settings on SQA, WTQ and TABFACT table reasoning datasets, and achieves state-of-the-art performance on SQA, especially when facing answer-invariant row and column order perturbations (6\% improvement over the best baseline), because previous SOTA models’ performance drops by \(4\% - 6\%\) when facing such perturbations while TABLEFORMER is not affected.

1 Introduction

Recently, semi-structured data (e.g. variable length tables without a fixed data schema) has attracted more attention because of its ubiquitous presence on the web. On a wide range of various table reasoning tasks, Transformer based architecture along with pretraining has shown to perform well (Eisenschlos et al., 2021; Liu et al., 2021).

In a nutshell, prior work used the Transformer architecture in a BERT like fashion by serializing

*Work done during an internship at Google.
1Code has been released at https://github.com.google-research/tämpfe/blob/master/TABLEFORMER.md

<table><tr><td>Title</td><td>Length</td></tr><tr><td>Screwed Up</td><td>5:02</td></tr><tr><td>Khetto Queen</td><td>5:00</td></tr></table>

Question: Of all song lengths, which one is the longest?

Gold Answer: 5:02

TAPAS: 5:00

TAPAS after row order perturbation: 5:02

TABLEFORMER: 5:02

(a) TAPAS predicts incorrect answer based on the original table, while it gives the correct answer if the first row is moved to the end of the table.

<table><tr><td>Nation</td><td>Gold</td><td>Silver</td><td>Bronze</td></tr><tr><td>Great Britain</td><td>2</td><td>1</td><td>2</td></tr><tr><td>Spain</td><td>1</td><td>2</td><td>0</td></tr><tr><td>Ukraine</td><td>0</td><td>2</td><td>0</td></tr></table>

Question: Which nation received 2 silver medals?

Gold Answer: Spain, Ukraine

TAPAS: Spain

TABLEFORMER: Spain, Ukraine

TABLEFORMER w/o a proposed structural bias: Spain

(b) TAPAS gives incomplete answer due to its limited cell grounding ability.

Figure 1: Examples showing the limitations of existing models (a) vulnerable to perturbations, and (b) lacking structural biases. In contrast, our proposed TABLEFORMER predicts correct answers for both questions.

tables or rows into word sequences (Yu et al., 2020; Liu et al., 2021), where original position ids are used as positional information. Due to the usage of row/column ids and global position ids, prior strategies to linear linearize table structures introduced spurious row and column order biases (Herzig et al., 2020; Eisenschlos et al., 2020, 2021; Zhang et al., 2020; Yin et al., 2020). Therefore, those models are vulnerable to row or column order perturbations. But, ideally, the model should make consistent predictions regardless of the row or column ordering for all practical purposes. For instance, in Figure 1, the predicted answer of TAPAS model (Herzig et al., 2020) for Question (a) “Of all song lengths, which one is the longest?” based on the original table is “5:00”, which is incorrect. However, if the first row is adjusted to the end of the table during inference,